In 2026, I will be designing and producing my project, OpenOrgel. The project itself is a portative pipe organ of which the documentation, design, and software will be open source. It will be mainly constructed of wood and 3D Printed PLA (Polylactic Acid) plastic. The organ will be powered by a self designed electric centrifugal blower that runs off a battery or voltage limited mains less than 50v AC or 120V  ripple-free DC , preferably less than 50V to power a DC motor that will run it. It will have a closed-loop wind system allowing for precise control over dynamics and air pressure. The wind system will make use of sensors to monitor air pressure, which will be generated passively via a weighted bellow lid on the reservoir/regulator. There will also be a tachometer or hall sensor to measure the RPM of the impeller, which will be reported to the controller. If air pressure drops, the system will increase the RPM accordingly so as to not overcompensate. If air pressure rises, the system will decrease the RPM, or if incredibly extreme the system will open some relief valves. To keep pressure stable past the regulator, there will be a one way valve to prevent backflow, and before that a valve that only lets air in at a certain pressure. This pressure will have to be adjustable by the controller in response to user input from the dynamics console. 
The current, most complicated form will have a range of C0-C8 which is 8 octaves of full chromatic range, larger than the piano. To allow for portability and size constraints, the low (pedal) range, which will be from C0-F#3 will be synthesised. Other voices may also be synthesised throughout the entire range of the organ, such as Voix Celeste or reed stops, or 8’ up to 32’ stops that are simply too large to produce or difficult to manufacture. I may add a percussion console which has some percussion instruments (Bells, drums, etc) that will likely be synthesised, as the large pipe organs of today typically have that. I will also make a synthesised Digeridoo stop that sounds exactly like an indigenous Digeridoo, perhaps with more indigenous instruments. The indigenous instruments will be implemented ethically, considering the context surrounding the instruments and the implications of including them, and will be approached with utmost respect. 


1.2)
The instrument is designed to function as an accessible, affordable, consistent, easy to use, easy to repair instrument for educational purposes 

In modern society, there is a persistent imbalance of the standard of living between nations. Developed nations enjoy a much more comfortable standard of living with prevalent access to resources such as musical education, which in the developed world is considered a right. In developing/underdeveloped nations, the standard of living is considerably less luxurious compared to developed nations. In these places, musical education is difficult to come by due to the intrinsic nature of musical education to be expensive. Musical education that is provided is typically not comprehensive and not to an acceptable standard, compared to more economically developed nations. Many across the world believe that musical education is an important issue in childhood, as it is necessary for the preservation of cultural music and indeed necessary for the preservation of culture itself. Unfortunately, according to The Age (The Age), The Music Trust Fund found that 63% of responding schools offered no music instruction, and only 23% of government school music programs were taught by specialist music teachers. For context, Australia is regarded as one of the richest countries in the world, consistently ranking second in median wealth per adult behind Luxembourg.
The pipe organ is widely regarded as one of the most versatile instruments out there, due to the variety of sounds, timbres, usage of standard keyboard format, and pure range it possesses. For this reason, the pipe organ would function as a suitable musical instrument for musical education, and  thus should be used for education. Unfortunately, this “king of instruments” is dying out due to the cost, importability, mechanical complexity, and maintenance costs associated with the instrument. An average pipe organ for a church would in this day and age cost between $200,000 and several million dollars. According to Yamaha, it can take up to five years from proposal to completion. The instrument itself is so large that the churches it is typically held in are generally built/designed around the pipe organ. The instrument is very mechanically complex, having hundreds of moving parts, springs and mechanical linkages all interconnected to move a single rank of pipes. This adds to the intense cost of the instrument, which is further amplified by the sheer number of pipes used in these instruments. An average non-portatative pipe organ will likely have more than a thousand separate pipes. The traditional large pipe organ is also by design non-portable, a fixed installation, as it is built into buildings and tedious to remove, and not designed to run free-standing. These factors combine to clearly demonstrate that access to musical education through an instrument as versatile as the pipe organ is incredibly challenging to come across for people without the funds or reliable access to buildings housing pipe organs.  This could prove damaging to the preservation of the history of music as the pipe organ has been used throughout western music since the ancient Greek “Hydraulis”. The OpenOrgel aims to create a full range, portable and disassembleable pipe organ which will be fully open source, and combines mechanical action, digital action, acoustic sounding pipes and digitally synthesised sounds. The OpenOrgel is aimed to preserve western and indigenous Australian culture in music and allow for cheaper yet more extensive musical education in countries where musical education is scarce, or poverty is rampant, and furthermore to solve the issue of importability, size, and inaccessibility surrounding the pipe organ. 
